[workflow] Documentation of http events (#27166)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/workflows/events.rst

    workflow.run(gather.bind(event1_task, event2_task))

HTTP Events
-----------

> :ref:`Ray Serve <rayserve>` enables receiving workflow events via HTTP.

Reviewer: Workflow supports sending external events via HTTP.

Author: Done

> To use HTTP events, we will install an HTTP event listener in the workflow and use Ray Serve to expose an HTTP endpoint. Below is an end-to-end example for installing the endpoint and receiving an HTTP event in a workflow.

Reviewer: We don't need to mention serve here since this is purely internal implementation.

Author: Done. All mentioning of Serve are removed.

an external client should specify ``workflow_id`` as part of the request URL and the ``event_key`` and ``event_payload`` keys in the JSON request body (see below).

.. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/wait_for_event_http.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: __wait_for_event_begin__
   :end-before: __wait_for_event_end__

An HTTP endpoint at ``http://hostname:port/event/send_event/<workflow_id>`` can be used to send an event. Locally,
the endpoint may be reached at ``http://127.0.0.1:8000/event/send_event/<workflow_id>``.
Note that the HTTP request must include the same ``workflow_id``.
Each request should also include a JSON body with two fields: ``event_key`` and ``event_payload``, as shown in the example
below. The ``event_key`` field should match the argument passed to ``workflow.wait_for_event()`` on the listener side. In the workflow, once an HTTP event is received, the event task will return the value of the ``event_payload`` field.

In summary, to trigger an HTTP event in the workflow, an external client should have:

> * the HTTP endpoint address (e.g. `http://127.0.0.1:8000/event/send_event/`)

Reviewer: ``http://127.0.0.1:8000/event/send_event``

Reviewer 2: done.

* the ``workflow_id`` (e.g. "workflow_receive_event_by_http")
* a valid JSON formatted message with the fields ``event_key`` and ``event_payload``, where ``event_key`` matches the one used in the workflow

The HTTP request will receive a reply once the event has been received by the workflow. The returned status code can be:

> 1. 404: either ``workflow_id`` or ``event_key`` cannot be found.

Reviewer: We should explain in which case this might happen. (ordering matters here)

Author: Done. Status code reordered.

---------------

An HTTP event is a specific workflow event received from an HTTP endpoint enabled
by Ray serve. The implementation of the HTTP endpoint is named `HTTPEventProvider`. Its
corresponding event listener is `HTTPListener`.

Receive an event by HTTP
--------------------------

`HTTPListener` is a customized `EventListener` that subscribes to an `HTTPEventProvider`
with the unique combination of `workflow_id` and `event_key`. An HTTP request from
an external event submitter needs to specify `workflow_id` as part of the request URL and
a JSON formatted document consisting of `event_key` and `event_payload`.

.. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/wait_for_event_http.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: __wait_for_event_begin__
   :end-before: __wait_for_event_end__

workflow_id as part of the request URL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`HTTPEventProvider` is deployed as a Ray serve endpoint at
`http://hostname:port/event/send_event/\<workflow_id\>`. If it is deployed locally,
the endpoint may be reached at `http://127.0.0.1:8000/event/send_event/\<workflow_id\>`.
Note that `workflow_id` must be included in the web request to match the active
`wait_for_event` task.

> 
> Expected event content in JSON
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> 
> `HTTPEventProvider` expects an arriving message to be a parsable JSON
> document with two fields, `event_key` and `event_payload`, as shown in the example
> below. The `event_key` field must match the `event_key` argument of the `workflow.wait_for_event`
> task. The value of the `event_payload` field is returned, along with the value of
> the `event_key` field as the output of the task.
> 
> .. code-block:: json
> 
>     {"event_key": "my_event_key", "event_payload": "my_event_message"}
> 
> Example event submitter client
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> 
> An external event submitter needs to have:
> 
> * the HTTP endpoint address (e.g. `http://127.0.0.1:8000/event/send_event/`)
> * the `workflow_id` (e.g. "workflow_receive_event_by_http")
> * a valid JSON formatted message
> 
> After submitting an event, the status code from the returned response can be:
> 
> 1. 404: either `workflow_id` or `event_key` cannot be found, needs to resubmit.
> 2. 500: event processing failed.
> 3. 200: event was successfully processed.
> 
> The code snippet below shows the submitter retries submission
> until the HTTP response code is not 404.
> 
> .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/wait_for_event_http.py
>    :language: python
>    :start-after: __submit_event_begin__
>    :end-before: __submit_event_end__

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each request should also include a JSON body with two fields: ``event_key`` and ``event_payload``, as shown in the example
below. The ``event_key`` field should match the argument passed to ``workflow.wait_for_event`` on the listener side. In the workflow, once an HTTP event is received, the event task will return the value of the ``event_payload`` field.

In summary, to trigger an HTTP event in the workflow, an external client should have:

* the HTTP endpoint address (e.g. `http://127.0.0.1:8000/event/send_event/`)
* the ``workflow_id`` (e.g. "workflow_receive_event_by_http")
* a valid JSON formatted message with the fields ``event_key`` and ``event_payload``, where ``event_key`` matches the one used in the workflow

The HTTP request will receive a reply once the event has been received by the workflow. The returned status code can be:

1. 404: either ``workflow_id`` or ``event_key`` cannot be found.
2. 500: event processing failed.
3. 200: event was successfully processed.

The code snippet below shows an example where the client retries the HTTP request until success.

.. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/wait_for_event_http.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: __submit_event_begin__
   :end-before: __submit_event_end__
```

    workflow.run(gather.bind(event1_task, event2_task))

Events via HTTP
---------------

An HTTP event is a specific workflow event received from an HTTP endpoint enabled
by Ray serve. The implementation of the HTTP endpoint is named `HTTPEventProvider`. Its
corresponding event listener is `HTTPListener`.

Receive an event by HTTP

> --------------------------

Reviewer: Too long

Reviewer 2: Shortened.

             self.consuemr.commit(event, asynchronous=False)

> Events via HTTP

Reviewer: move it before the Custom event listeners

---------------

An HTTP event is a specific workflow event received from an HTTP endpoint enabled
by Ray serve. The implementation of the HTTP endpoint is named `HTTPEventProvider`. Its
corresponding event listener is `HTTPListener`.

Receive an event by HTTP
--------------------------

`HTTPListener` is a customized `EventListener` that subscribes to an `HTTPEventProvider`
with the unique combination of `workflow_id` and `event_key`. An HTTP request from
an external event submitter needs to specify `workflow_id` as part of the request URL and
a JSON formatted document consisting of `event_key` and `event_payload`.

The external submitter learns the values of `workflow_id` and `event_key` through
the application context, which is out of the scope in this discussion.

.. code-block:: python

    import ray
    from ray import workflow
    from ray.workflow.http_event_provider import HTTPListener

    # Create a task waiting for an http event with a JSON message.
    # The JSON message is expected to have an event_key field
    # and an event_payload field.
    event_task = workflow.wait_for_event(HTTPListener, event_key='my_event_key')

>     key, messsage = workflow.run(event_task, workflow_id='workflow_receive_event_by_http')

Reviewer: - change run to run_async
- add a line to send the request
- key, message = ray.get(obj_ref) 

Move the code to doc_code and ref from there to make sure the code is able to execute

Author: @iycheng Clarification needed: should all code snippets in events.rst be moved under doc_code or just those in the HTTP subsection?

Author: Moved the code to doc_code and confirmed the code executed successfully.

workflow_id as part of the request URL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, `HTTPEventProvider` is deployed as a Ray serve endpoint at

> `http://hostname:port/event/send_event/<workflow_id>`. If it is deployed locally,

Reviewer: <img width="769" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74173148/181853874-9e77c0e2-05c0-4d79-a6a6-dfe9e5cf2294.png">

It seems not correct

Author: Fixed

`wait_for_event` task.

If there are more than one active `wait_for_event` tasks within the same
`workflow_id`, `HTTPEventProvider` will forward to the task subscribing to
the matching `event_key`.

Expected event content in JSON
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, `HTTPEventProvider` expects an arriving message to be a parsable JSON
document with two fields, `event_key` and `event_payload`, as shown in the example
below. The `event_key` field must match the `event_key` argument of the `workflow.wait_for_event`
task. The value of the `event_payload` field is returned, along with the value of
the `event_key` field as the output of the task.

.. code-block:: json

    {"event_key": "my_event_key", "event_payload": "my_event_message"}

Example event submitter client
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An external event submitter needs to have:

* the HTTP endpoint address (e.g. `http://127.0.0.1:8000/event/send_event/`)
* the `workflow_id` (e.g. "workflow_receive_event_by_http")
* a valid JSON formatted message

The code snippet below retries submission by checking the HTTP response code 404,
which is returned by `HTTPEventProvider` if the `event_key` was not expected or

> the `workflow_id` did not exist, HTTP response code 200 is returned if the event

Reviewer: We need to explain why it'll return 200.

Reviewer 2: The paragraph now explains why.

was submitted and accepted successfully. HTTP response code 500 indicates server
side event processing failure, which could be caused by workflow cancellation.

.. code-block:: python

    from time import sleep
    import requests

    def send_event():
        resp = requests.post(
            "http://127.0.0.1:8000/event/send_event/"
            + "workflow_receive_event_by_http",
            json={"event_key": "my_event_key", "event_payload": "my_event_message"},
        )
        return resp

    # repeat send_event() until the returned status code is not 404
    while True:
        res = send_event()
        if res.status_code == 404:
            sleep(0.5)
        else:
            break

> HTTP event listener

Reviewer: Not sure, but it probably not necessary for this doc? The audience of this doc should be the user who want to use this. Not sure whether it's helpful for them.

Author: Removed
